DESIGN :: main

Not sure what to call the game yet.

The goal is to approach classic Minecraft in completeness then expand the
gameplay with deep systems where making inventive use of all available 
tools is the best strategy.
The games that serve as inspiration include Minecraft (obviously), Zelda botw,
Dwarf Fortress, Pixel Dungeon (and other rogue likes), Cube World and more.

Ideas:
> Seasons
Similar to some Minecraft mods change season every few days demanding
a medium amount of effort to survive winter (like Dwarf Fortress).

> Deep oceans
Decrease light level as depth increases, making oceans unsettling.
Maybe make it dangerous (and rewarding) to explore. Diving bell?

> Ships
Boats are cool but it would be great to have large, explorable ships too.

> Better liquid physics
Water should work more like Dwarf Fortress, infinite water sources are boring.
Force the player to interact with the systemic gameplay with water pumps
and wells.

> Interesting light sources
Torches should burn out over time and also work while being held. Water
should also extinguish them - using them in oceans would not be desired.
Introduce alternatives to torches with different tradeoffs (like lanterns
working in rain). Some automation mechanic could be integrated with this.

> Systemic automation
Instead of magic torches that power things create interesting opportunities to
take advantage of natural resources - steam, gas, etc.

> Better building physics
Constructions should require proper support, shielding from rain and insulation.
A lot like Valheim, this would make building not just about looks but the
unique properties of different materials and would push players towards
more realistic and functional construction.

> Better beds
Minecraft beds are just a "skip gameplay" button. You click on them and
there's no consequences, that's not a very interesting choice.
Require a safe space with adequate temperature and humidity, increase
hunger etc.

> More variety (interesting, pixel dungeon style systemic mechanics)

> Procedural rogue-like dungeons

> Generate a new world while still in menu for potentially an instant new game

> No difficulty settings
Cheats like diabling hostile entities are okay, but Minecraft difficulty
settings only tweak some numbers, and peaceful is lacking. Numbers would be
even more meaningless in a systems driven game, and peaceful would be even
more imbalanced. Make some areas more hostile than others, like Dwarf Fortress.
Players who don't want to face tougher parts of the world should still
have a good experience.

> Villages and towns
Somewhat simulated settlements with militaries and castles for various races.
I'd like to handle relationships between entities a bit like Dwarf Fortress but
time and high performance 3d graphics might make it impossible.
Still an idea worth exploring though.

> Zelda cooking mechanics
It's just so satisfying, has to be in the game.

> Zelda dynamic music and sfx

> Present world as menu background
Generation can be hidden by directing camera at the moon then looking down.